Design for a New Technology Research Tree
-----------------------------------------

Currently there's about two dozen technologies to research in the game.
In efficient play it's feasible to research all of them.  Unfortunately,
this means for a skilled player we are only providing one game play
experience.

This proposal seeks to significantly expand the number of research items
beyond what can be achieved in a single game play.  These items are
organized into several separate lines or fields of research, so that
different research choices can lead to a variety of different game play
experiences.  A typical game play experience should enable researching
most of the items in one field, plus small chunks of some of the others.
A skillful player may be able to master two fields fairly fully.  A
player dedicated to research as a primary objective might be able to
achieve three fields - about half the available tech in the game.

A design intent is to make each of the fields relatively self-contained,
so that important enhancements (like improved O2) can be attained
several different ways - via genetically enhanced plants if your
research focuses on organics, or via scrubbing machinery if you're more
physics oriented.  Indeed, several research paths will end up being
mutually exclusive.

We anticipate that different types of players will wish to play
different types of games - some enjoy the challenge of battle and will
wish to strengthen their military prowess.  Others will prefer to focus
on building and not having to deal with crew unhappiness so much.

Each of the fields will provide one or two important research
opportunities at entry level, so a player specialized in one field can
still get their basic necessities from other fields.

Six fields of research are identified, to reflect the six sides of a
hexagon:


Tactics: For players seeking a more combat oriented style of play,
    this field provides an efficient path to strong weaponry, defenses,
    and battle enhancements.

    Research in this branch is fairly linear giving incremental combat
    upgrades and ways to stifle morale, O2, and power needs if the
    player needs it.  But we expect competitive players are going to
    make a bee-line towards the formiddable battle gear at the far
    end, so we don't bother them with a lot of unnecessary choices.

    There are a modest number of relatively "rich" research items in
    this tree.  Since these players will prefer to keep their attention
    to battle, we won't trouble them needing to keep clicking on new
    research; instead each level provides a collection of upgrades and
    new functions.

    A consequence of researching Tactics is that the game will know
    you're interested in war, and so will work to delivery it.  Hostile
    encounters will be ramped up, and will grow in difficulty as you
    go.


Energetics: Players desiring to strategically harness the unrestrained
    forces of the universe to their own ends will be drawn to this
    field.  This field contains a very large number of research items,
    organized along multiple different, deep branches.  A player will
    need to be selective in what paths they take, but in so doing will
    unlock the most powerful devices and capabilities (and disasters!)
    in the game.  One way or another, a choice for this field is a
    Choice For Fun!
    
    A player interested in shock-and-awe battle will be drawn to
    Energetics for its uber-WMDs and powerful shields, but these
    technologies will draw attention of quite powerful adversaries.
    (After all, if you researched it you're probably looking forward to
    using it!)

    Alternatively, players wishing to be left alone will enjoy exploring
    trying on the cloaking technologies for size.  Of course, a
    consequence of cloaking is that immigrants, traders, and other
    friendlies will be leaving you alone as well!
    

Physics: The meat and potatoes of research, Physics focuses on
    fundamental research that will help in developing a highly effective
    base.  The research options are wide open, with nearly as many items
    as Energetics but on much shorter trees.  This enables builder
    oriented players to choose the technologies they need, when they
    need it.

    Compared to the other branches, Physics is the most self-contained.
    A novice player could stick with this field and get all their
    research needs met: All the basic station functionalities and their
    core power and O2 upgrades, decent weapons, and some morale boosting
    entertainment.

    Even experienced players choosing to specialize in one of the other
    fields will appreciate being able to tune their research program by
    selecting a few of the entry-level Physics options.


Organics: What appears to be a simple field at its most basics, quickly
    branches into a huge tree covering biological food and O2
    production, genetic engineering, insectoid warriors, and organic
    based ship construction.  Players will enjoy the unique novelties
    this field provides, forcing new thinking for solving the various
    problems in the game.  Things that would be problems, such as
    Maladies, now become important tools; things that were important
    tools, such as nuclear power plants, now become irritating
    problems.

    Good luck, and maybe research the flame thrower from Physics, just
    in case.


Mathematics:  In many ways the soul of the other trees, Mathematics is
    effectively a set of keys that unlock the most powerful secrets
    hidden in other trees.

    Specialization in Mathematics is key for becoming a dominant player
    in the intergalactic merchantile network, as it provides a wealth of
    trade opportunities.  And just as in the 21st century, money means
    power, and so Mathematics empowers the player to much more easily
    control and manipulate outside interactions.  If the player wishes
    to stop hostiles, a mercenary force is mere credits away.  Should
    they wish more space for their crew, pre-built ship modules are
    simply imported.  Morale problems can be tackled with bonus payouts.  

